README.rst, before:

Synopsis
========

A simple script to scrape for Tweets using the Python package requests
to retrieve the content and Beautifullsoup4 to parse the retrieved
content.

1. Motivation
=============

Twitter has provided `REST
API's <https://dev.twitter.com/rest/public>`__ which can be used by
developers to access and read Twitter data. They have also provided a
`Streaming API <https://dev.twitter.com/streaming/overview>`__ which can
be used to access Twitter Data in real-time.

Most of the software written to access Twitter data provide a library
which functions as a wrapper around Twitters Search and Streaming API's
and therefore are limited by the limitations of the API's.

With Twitter's Search API you can only sent 180 Requests every 15
minutes. With a maximum number of 100 tweets per Request this means you
can mine for 4 x 180 x 100 = 72.000 tweets per hour. By using
TwitterScraper you are not limited by this number but by your internet
speed/bandwith and the number of instances of TwitterScraper you are
willing to start.

One of the bigger disadvantages of the Search API is that you can only
access Tweets written in the **past 7 days**. This is a major bottleneck
for anyone looking for older past data to make a model from. With
TwitterScraper there is no such limitation.

Per Tweet it scrapes the following information: + Username and Full Name
+ Tweet-id + Tweet-url + Tweet text + Tweet timestamp + No. of likes +
No. of replies + No. of retweets

2. Installation and Usage
=========================

To install **twitterscraper**:

.. code:: python

    (sudo) pip install twitterscraper

or you can clone the repository and in the folder containing setup.py

.. code:: python

    python setup.py install

2.2 The CLI
-----------

You can use the command line application to get your tweets stored to
JSON right away. Twitterscraper takes several arguments:

-  ``-h`` or ``--help`` Print out the help message and exits.

-  ``-l`` or ``--limit`` TwitterScraper stops scraping when *at least*
   the number of tweets indicated with ``--limit`` is scraped. Since
   tweets are retrieved in batches of 20, this will always be a multiple
   of 20.

   Omit the limit to retrieve all tweets. You can at any time abort the
   scraping by pressing Ctrl+C, the scraped tweets will be stored safely
   in your JSON file.

-  ``--lang`` Retrieves tweets written in a specific language. Currently
   30+ languages are supported. For a full list of the languages print
   out the help message.

-  ``-bd`` or ``--begindate`` Set the date from which TwitterScraper
   should start scraping for your query. Format is YYYY-MM-DD. The
   default value is set to 2017-01-01.

-  ``-ed`` or ``--enddate`` Set the enddate which TwitterScraper should
   use to stop scraping for your query. Format is YYYY-MM-DD. The
   default value is set to today.

-  ``-p`` or ``--poolsize`` Set the number of parallel processes
   TwitterScraper should initiate while scraping for your query. Default
   value is set to 20. Depending on the computational power you have,
   you can increase this number. It is advised to keep this number below
   half of the number of days you are scraping. For example, if you are
   scraping from 2017-01-10 to 2017-01-20, you can set this number to a
   maximum of 5. If you are scraping from 2016-01-01 to 2016-12-31, you
   can increase this number to a maximum of 150, if you have the
   computational resources.

-  ``-o`` or ``--output`` Gives the name of the output file. If no
   output filename is given, the default filename 'tweets.json' will be
   used.

-  ``-d`` or ``--dump``: With this argument, the scraped tweets will be
   printed to the screen instead of an outputfile. If you are using this
   argument, the ``--output`` argument doe not need to be used.

Below is an example of how twitterscraper can be used:

``twitterscraper Trump --limit 100 --output=tweets.json``

``twitterscraper Trump -l 100 -o tweets.json``

2.3 From within Python
----------------------

You can easily use TwitterScraper from within python:

::

    from twitterscraper import query_tweets
    list_of_tweets = query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10)

    #print the retrieved tweets to the screen:
    for tweet in query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10):
        print(tweet)
        
    #Or save the retrieved tweets to file:
    file = open(“output.txt”,”w”) 
    for tweet in query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10):
        file.write(tweet.encode('utf-8')) 
    file.close()

2.4 Composing advanced queries
------------------------------

You can use any advanced query twitter supports. Simply compile your
query at https://twitter.com/search-advanced. After you compose your
advanced search, copy the part of the URL between q= and the first
subsequent &.

For example, from the URL
``https://twitter.com/search?l=&q=Trump%20near%3A%22Seattle%2C%20WA%22%20within%3A15mi&src=typd&lang=en``

you need to copy the following part:
``Trump%20near%3A%22Seattle%2C%20WA%22%20within%3A15mi``

You can use the CLI with the advanced query, the same way as a simple
query:

-  based on a daterange:
   ``twitterscraper Trump -bd 2017-01-01 -ed A2017-06-01 -o tweets.json``

-  based on a daterange and location:
   ``twitterscraper "Trump near:Seattle within:15mi" -bd 2017-01-01 -ed 2017-06-01 -o tweets.json``

-  based on a specific author:
   ``twitterscraper "Trump from:AlWest13" -o tweets.json``

3. Output
=========

All of the retrieved Tweets are stored in the indicated output file. The
contents of the output file will look like:

::

    [{"fullname": "Rupert Meehl", "id": "892397793071050752", "likes": "1", "replies": "0", "retweets": "0", "text": "Latest: Trump now at lowest Approval and highest Disapproval ratings yet. Oh, we're winning bigly here ...\n\nhttps://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/trump-approval-ratings/?ex_cid=rrpromo\u00a0\u2026", "timestamp": "2017-08-01T14:53:08", "user": "Rupert_Meehl"}, {"fullname": "Barry Shapiro", "id": "892397794375327744", "likes": "0", "replies": "0", "retweets": "0", "text": "A former GOP Rep quoted this line, which pretty much sums up Donald Trump. https://twitter.com/davidfrum/status/863017301595107329\u00a0\u2026", "timestamp": "2017-08-01T14:53:08", "user": "barryshap"}, (...)
    ]

3.1 Opening the output file
---------------------------

In order to correctly handle all possible characters in the tweets
(think of chinese or arabic characters), the output is saved as utf-8
encoded bytes. That is why you could see text like
"":raw-latex:`\u3`0b1:raw-latex:`\u3`0f3:raw-latex:`\u3`055:raw-latex:`\u3`07e:raw-latex:`\u3`0fe
..." in the output file.

What you should do is open the file with the proper encoding:

.. figure:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4409108/30702318-f05bc196-9eec-11e7-8234-a07aabec294f.PNG
   :alt: Example of output with chinese characters

   Example of output with chinese characters

TO DO
=====

-  Add caching potentially? Would be nice to be able to resume scraping
   if something goes wrong and have half of the data of a request cached
   or so.
-  Add an example of using a thread pool/asynchio for gathering more
   tweets in parallel.
-  Use RegExp for retrieving the information from the scraped page
   (instead of Beautifullsoup4). This might solve the problem of the
   HTML parser not working properly on some linux distributions.

Commit message:

README.rst: update section with advanced queries

README.rst, after:

Synopsis
========

A simple script to scrape for Tweets using the Python package requests
to retrieve the content and Beautifullsoup4 to parse the retrieved
content.

1. Motivation
=============

Twitter has provided `REST
API's <https://dev.twitter.com/rest/public>`__ which can be used by
developers to access and read Twitter data. They have also provided a
`Streaming API <https://dev.twitter.com/streaming/overview>`__ which can
be used to access Twitter Data in real-time.

Most of the software written to access Twitter data provide a library
which functions as a wrapper around Twitters Search and Streaming API's
and therefore are limited by the limitations of the API's.

With Twitter's Search API you can only sent 180 Requests every 15
minutes. With a maximum number of 100 tweets per Request this means you
can mine for 4 x 180 x 100 = 72.000 tweets per hour. By using
TwitterScraper you are not limited by this number but by your internet
speed/bandwith and the number of instances of TwitterScraper you are
willing to start.

One of the bigger disadvantages of the Search API is that you can only
access Tweets written in the **past 7 days**. This is a major bottleneck
for anyone looking for older past data to make a model from. With
TwitterScraper there is no such limitation.

Per Tweet it scrapes the following information: + Username and Full Name
+ Tweet-id + Tweet-url + Tweet text + Tweet timestamp + No. of likes +
No. of replies + No. of retweets

2. Installation and Usage
=========================

To install **twitterscraper**:

.. code:: python

    (sudo) pip install twitterscraper

or you can clone the repository and in the folder containing setup.py

.. code:: python

    python setup.py install

2.2 The CLI
-----------

You can use the command line application to get your tweets stored to
JSON right away. Twitterscraper takes several arguments:

-  ``-h`` or ``--help`` Print out the help message and exits.

-  ``-l`` or ``--limit`` TwitterScraper stops scraping when *at least*
   the number of tweets indicated with ``--limit`` is scraped. Since
   tweets are retrieved in batches of 20, this will always be a multiple
   of 20.

   Omit the limit to retrieve all tweets. You can at any time abort the
   scraping by pressing Ctrl+C, the scraped tweets will be stored safely
   in your JSON file.

-  ``--lang`` Retrieves tweets written in a specific language. Currently
   30+ languages are supported. For a full list of the languages print
   out the help message.

-  ``-bd`` or ``--begindate`` Set the date from which TwitterScraper
   should start scraping for your query. Format is YYYY-MM-DD. The
   default value is set to 2017-01-01.

-  ``-ed`` or ``--enddate`` Set the enddate which TwitterScraper should
   use to stop scraping for your query. Format is YYYY-MM-DD. The
   default value is set to today.

-  ``-p`` or ``--poolsize`` Set the number of parallel processes
   TwitterScraper should initiate while scraping for your query. Default
   value is set to 20. Depending on the computational power you have,
   you can increase this number. It is advised to keep this number below
   half of the number of days you are scraping. For example, if you are
   scraping from 2017-01-10 to 2017-01-20, you can set this number to a
   maximum of 5. If you are scraping from 2016-01-01 to 2016-12-31, you
   can increase this number to a maximum of 150, if you have the
   computational resources.

-  ``-o`` or ``--output`` Gives the name of the output file. If no
   output filename is given, the default filename 'tweets.json' will be
   used.

-  ``-d`` or ``--dump``: With this argument, the scraped tweets will be
   printed to the screen instead of an outputfile. If you are using this
   argument, the ``--output`` argument doe not need to be used.

Below is an example of how twitterscraper can be used:

``twitterscraper Trump --limit 100 --output=tweets.json``

``twitterscraper Trump -l 100 -o tweets.json``

2.3 From within Python
----------------------

You can easily use TwitterScraper from within python:

::

    from twitterscraper import query_tweets
    list_of_tweets = query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10)

    #print the retrieved tweets to the screen:
    for tweet in query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10):
        print(tweet)
        
    #Or save the retrieved tweets to file:
    file = open(“output.txt”,”w”) 
    for tweet in query_tweets("Trump OR Clinton", 10):
        file.write(tweet.encode('utf-8')) 
    file.close()

2.4 Composing advanced queries
------------------------------

You can use any advanced query Twitter supports. An advanced query
should be placed within quotes, so that twitterscraper can recognize it
as one single query.

Here are some examples:

-  search for the occurence of 'Bitcoin' or 'BTC':
   ``twitterscraper "Bitcoin OR BTC " -o bitcoin_tweets.json``
-  search for the occurence of 'Bitcoin' and 'BTC':
   ``twitterscraper "Bitcoin AND BTC " -o bitcoin_tweets.json``
-  search for tweets from a specific user:
   ``twitterscraper "Blockchain from:VitalikButerin" -o blockchain_tweets.json``
-  search for tweets to a specific user:
   ``twitterscraper "Blockchain to:VitalikButerin" -o blockchain_tweets.json``
-  search for tweets written from a location:
   ``twitterscraper "Blockchain near:Seattle within:15mi" -o blockchain_tweets.json``

3. Output
=========

All of the retrieved Tweets are stored in the indicated output file. The
contents of the output file will look like:

::

    [{"fullname": "Rupert Meehl", "id": "892397793071050752", "likes": "1", "replies": "0", "retweets": "0", "text": "Latest: Trump now at lowest Approval and highest Disapproval ratings yet. Oh, we're winning bigly here ...\n\nhttps://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/trump-approval-ratings/?ex_cid=rrpromo\u00a0\u2026", "timestamp": "2017-08-01T14:53:08", "user": "Rupert_Meehl"}, {"fullname": "Barry Shapiro", "id": "892397794375327744", "likes": "0", "replies": "0", "retweets": "0", "text": "A former GOP Rep quoted this line, which pretty much sums up Donald Trump. https://twitter.com/davidfrum/status/863017301595107329\u00a0\u2026", "timestamp": "2017-08-01T14:53:08", "user": "barryshap"}, (...)
    ]

3.1 Opening the output file
---------------------------

In order to correctly handle all possible characters in the tweets
(think of chinese or arabic characters), the output is saved as utf-8
encoded bytes. That is why you could see text like
"":raw-latex:`\u3`0b1:raw-latex:`\u3`0f3:raw-latex:`\u3`055:raw-latex:`\u3`07e:raw-latex:`\u3`0fe
..." in the output file.

What you should do is open the file with the proper encoding:

.. figure:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4409108/30702318-f05bc196-9eec-11e7-8234-a07aabec294f.PNG
   :alt: Example of output with chinese characters

   Example of output with chinese characters

TO DO
=====

-  Add caching potentially? Would be nice to be able to resume scraping
   if something goes wrong and have half of the data of a request cached
   or so.
-  Add an example of using a thread pool/asynchio for gathering more
   tweets in parallel.
-  Use RegExp for retrieving the information from the scraped page
   (instead of Beautifullsoup4). This might solve the problem of the
   HTML parser not working properly on some linux distributions.
